[Term Entry] Swift Protocols Hashable (#3060)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/protocols/terms/hashable/hashable.md

---
Title: 'Hashable'
Description: 'Allows types to be hashed into integer values.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Protocols'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`Hashable`** protocol is a fundamental protocol in Swift that allows types to be hashed into integer values, facilitating their use as keys in hash-based collections like dictionaries and sets.

## Syntax

```pseudo
protocol Hashable {

>     func hash(into hasher: inout Hasher)

Reviewer: complete this function; should we include hasher.combine() or a comment about it

Reviewer: change `hasher` to `myhasher` and adjust in explanation below

Author: > complete this function; should we include hasher.combine() or a comment about it

we have hasher.combined() in the example.

}
```

The protocol requires the implementation of the `hash(into:)` method. This method accepts an `inout Hasher` parameter, which is responsible for combining the hash values of the properties of the type

## Example

In this example, the Person struct conforms to the Hashable protocol by implementing the `hash(into:)` method. The hash value is calculated by combining the `name` and `age` properties using the `hasher.combine(_:)` method. This allows instances of the Person struct to be stored in a set (`personSet`) and efficiently looked up using their hashed values.

```swift
struct Person: Hashable {
    var name: String
    var age: Int
    

>     func hash(into hasher: inout Hasher) {

Reviewer: can we change hasher to `myhasher`

---
Title: 'Hashable'
Description: 'Allows types to be hashed into integer values.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'Protocols'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

The **`Hashable`** protocol is a fundamental protocol in Swift that allows types to be hashed into integer values, facilitating their use as keys in hash-based collections like dictionaries and sets.

> In swift, the following types conforms to the Hashable protocol by default: 
> **`Int`**, **`UInt`**, **`Float`**, **`Double`**, **`Bool`**, **`String`**, **`Character`**, **`Turples`**, **`Optionals`**, **`Enums`**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Swift, the following [types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/data-types) conforms to the `Hashable` protocol by default: `Int`, `UInt`, `Float`, `Double`, `Bool`, `String`, `Character`, `Turples`, `Optionals`, `Enums`.
```

Author: done

## Syntax

```pseudo
protocol Hashable {
    func hash(into myhasher: inout Hasher)
}
```

The protocol requires the implementation of the `hash(into:)` method. This method accepts an `inout Hasher` parameter named `myhasher`, which is responsible for combining the hash values of the properties of the type.

## Example using Struct

In this example, the Person struct conforms to the Hashable protocol by implementing the `hash(into:)` method. The hash value is calculated by combining the `name` and `age` properties using the `myhasher.combine(_:)` method. This allows instances of the Person struct to be stored in a set (`personSet`) and efficiently looked up using their hashed values.

> ```swift

Author: not sure i understand what you mean here @caupolicandiaz

struct Person: Hashable {
    var name: String
    var age: Int
    
    func hash(into myhasher: inout Hasher) {
        myhasher.combine(name)
        myhasher.combine(age)
    }
}

var personSet: Set<Person> = []
let person1 = Person(name: "Alice", age: 30)
let person2 = Person(name: "Bob", age: 25)

personSet.insert(person1)
personSet.insert(person2)

print("Is Alice in the set? \(personSet.contains(person1) ? "Yes" : "No")")
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
Is Alice in the set? Yes
```

> ## Example using Enum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example using `enum`
```

Author: done

> In this example, we have an enum called `Color` with three cases: `red`, `green`, and `blue`. Since enum cases are unique by definition, they are automatically hashable, and you can use them in data structures like sets or dictionaries without any additional implementation for the `Hashable` protocol

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we have an enum called `Color` with three cases: `red`, `green`, and `blue`. Since enum cases are unique by definition, they are automatically hashable, and they can be used in data structures like sets or dictionaries without any additional implementation for the `Hashable` protocol.
```

Author: done

> ```swift

Reviewer 2: update the indentations

Author: @caupolicandiaz  same here, not sure i understand what you mean, maybe an example ?

Reviewer 2: 2 spaces
enum Color:Hashable {
  case red
  case green
  ...
tabs
enum Color:Hashable {
	case red
	case green
  	...

Indented code can be created with spaces or the tab key. Docs only uses spaces

Author: @caupolicandiaz  yes i know what Indented code is but you selected a paragraph text in your change request i don't see any Indention there, what exactly do you want me to update, code syntax ?, please be specific, thank you.
